Sajan Gutta
Answers for Homework 3 - CSCI 104

Problem 1:
1. This would be a list because lists have order. Each item would be a
struct for a subject, with the history as a data member. The history was
a string in our homework but could be a vector of integers for an easier
data structure to work with.
2. This would just be a set that has each student who earned an A.
3. This would be a map. There would be an entry for each student.
Each student name would be a key, where the value would be the actual
object/struct or a pointer to it for the student and their data.
4. This would be a map as well. It would use grades as keys and the values
a set of students. Every student would fall into the value for one of the keys.

Problem 2:
The returned link list is 5-4-3-2-1 which is a reversed version of the input.
First, funcA takes in the head node, 1 as an input. It loops and sets out to 5.
Now, funcB is called on 1. Since 1 is not the list end, funcB is called inside
the if(in->next != nullptr) loop and funcB(2) is called. This recursive call
continues until funcB(5) at which point 5 is returned back to funcB(4). Then,
the next pointer for 5 is set to 4 and 4 is returned to funcB(3). This continues
up the recursive tree as 4 next is set to 3, 3 next is set to 2, 2 next is set to 1
and 1 is returned back to the original funcA(1) call. Finally, the line with
funcB(in)->next = NULL; that started the recursive calls sets 1 next to NULL,
making 1 the back of the list. Finally, the original back which is 5, is returned
in return out; and the execution of funcA(1) completes. This is how the call
recurses down and back up, reversing the direction of the list on its way up by
forming new links.

Problem 3:
1. The very inner k loop runs once on its first execution, setting A[i] = 1.
This is because it only runs when j=0 and then never runs again because the 
A[i]==0 condition is never met again. This means that j loop runs i times, and has
a constant amount of work within it. Thus, since i is dependent on n, the work for the
j loop becomes n when summed. Thus, we are running the outer i loop n times, and doing n
work within it. Thus, worst case, the code runs in Big-theta(n^2) time.

2. The for loop runs logn times because i is multplied by 2 for each iteration.
Then, func is called on i. Func has a runtime of n because whatever number is passed in will
be slowly decremented for ensuing recursive calls until it reaches 1. This would indicate 
nlogn usually but not in this case. The inner loop has theta of i but since we only run it
over powers of 2, the total work is 1+2+4...+2^n. This becomes the some of 2^k where k goes
from 0 to logn in this case. This sums to 2^logn which is just n. Thus, deceivingly, this
code has Big-theta(n) despite having two nested loops.

3. The first 11 lines run in c1+n time. Then we get to a for loop that runs n times.
Going to the inner-most loop which is where j=0; j<n, we find that that loop runs
n times, doing constant work, so it has a runtime of n. This is nested within a while loop
which based on the nature of linked lists, would normally do its work n times. However, the if
statement inside it impacts its number of executions. The statement checks if the current item in
the linked list is divisible by the number i specificed by the outer loop. Since the number 
i is increasing each loop, this will run n times, then n/2 times, then n/3 times, etc. 
This is the harmonic series and works out to a run-time of logn. Thus, the inner loops 
will do logn*n*c work, having a runtime of nlogn. The outer loop runs n times. Thus, the 
runtime will be Big-theta(n^2*(logn)).

4. The first 2 lines of this run in constant time. Next, we have the loop that runs n times. 
Inside it, the if condition that i==size will only run when at an iteration equal to i. 
Inside this condition however, is a loop who's number of loops depends on size, which equals i 
when the loop is run. Thus, this depends on n and runs n times. However, the if condition also 
multiplies size by 3 each time. Thus, 3 will also run on the 9th iteration, 27th and so on. 
Thus, we run constant work n times inside the outer loop, but in addition there is n+c work 
being done logn times because of the if condition. 
Thus, the runtime is equal to n*c + logn*(n+c) + c. This ultimately has Big-Theta(n*logn).